.\" Copyright (c) 2000
.\"	Core-SDI SA. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    This product includes software developed by Core-SDI SA and its
.\"    contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of Core-SDI SA nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.ta 3m 3m
.Dd May 10, 2000
.Dt OM_PEO 1
.Os Core-SDI
.Sh NAME
.Nm peo output module
.Nd syslogd(8) output module used to protect log files
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm peo
.Op Fl k Ar keyfile
.Op Fl l
.Op Fl m Ar hash_method
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm peo output module 
receives a message as an ascii string and calculates its \fBhash\fP key based
on the last one generated for the previous message; the module removes the
last key and writes the new one into \fIkeyfile\fP. The options are as
follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl k Ar keyfile
Specify the key file pathname; the default is
\fI/var/ssyslog/.var.log.messages.key\fP.
.It Fl l
Using this option the module generates two keys, the first explained above
and a second key using a \fBmac\fP method based on two serial \fBhash\fPes,
this new key is added into the \fBmac\fP file whose pathname is the same as
\fIkeyfile\fP with a ".mac" string added at the end.
.It Fl m Ar hash_method
Specifies the hash method used to generate the key to put into the
\fIkeyfile\fP, \fIhash_method\fP should be one of \fImd5\fP, \fIsha1\fP,
or \fIrmd160\fP; the default is \fIsha1\fP.
.Sh EXAMPLES
If you want to protect the /var/log/authlog file you should edit the
/etc/syslog.conf file (see syslog.conf(5)) and add a line with something
like this:
.Pp
	\fBaca va la linea que hay que agregar en /etc/syslog.conf\fP
.Pp
When you want to check the protected file integrity you should use the
peochk(1) command.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr peochk 1 ,
.Xr syslogd 8 ,
.Xr syslog.conf 5
.Sh BUGS
if you found bugs, please report them to msyslog-list@core-sdi.com
