.\"	$Id: im_file.8,v 1.5 2002/09/17 05:20:27 alejo Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, 2001
.\"	Core-SDI SA. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Core-SDI SA nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd Nov 06, 2001
.Dt IM_FILE 8
.Os Core-SDI
.Sh NAME
.Nm FILE input module
.Nd
.Xr syslogd 8
input module for reading block special file and regular files.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm file
.Op Fl f Ar file path
.Op Fl n Ar program or alias, hostname
.Op Fl s Ar start position for the timestamp
.Op Fl t Ar time format (see strftime)
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Reads the log messages from a regular file or other block device.
It is presumed that the file will typically have have additional data appended to it.
The file is reprocessed from the beginning if any of the following conditions are met:
(1) The file size decreases
(2) The creation time changes
(3) The file name changes
(4) The file becomes unlinked (in which case the file is first reopened).
This module is intended primarily to read logs in formats other than typical syslog format.
It should be possible to use this module for any block special file.
If a character special file is providing the input the im_pipe module should be used.
When the
.Xr syslogd 8
daemon is restarted this module will process all the records in the source file unless
a start record identifier is provided.
In the case where a start record is provided the module will search for that record before
beginning processing.
If the start record specifier is negative it is interpreted as that many records back from the end.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
 It's options are:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ar log_socket
Socket to use, default is /dev/log.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -bullet
.It
The following command installs
.Xr syslogd 8
daemon reading from file /some/path:
.Pp
.Dl syslogd -i 'file -f /some/path'
.El
.Bl -bullet
.It
Same as above, but sets the name to 'myapp':
.Pp
.Dl syslogd -i 'file -n myapp -f /some/path'
.El
.Bl -bullet
.It
Same as above, but on /some/named/pipe pipe instead of the file:
.Pp
.Dl syslogd -i 'file -n myapp -p /some/named/pipe'
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr syslog 3 ,
.Xr im_bsd 8 ,
.Xr im_doors 8 ,
.Xr im_linux 8 ,
.Xr im_streams 8 ,
.Xr im_tcp 8 ,
.Xr im_udp 8 ,
.Xr syslogd 8
.Sh BUGS
.Bl -bullet
.It
Submit bugs at this project's Sourceforge Bug reporting system at:
http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=add&group_id=25741&atid=385117
The more you describe the bug, the faster we can fix it.
.El
