.\"	$CoreSDI: im_linux.8,v 1.8 2000/07/01 00:37:41 claudio Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000
.\"	Core-SDI SA. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    This product includes software developed by Core-SDI SA and its
.\"    contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of Core-SDI SA nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd Jun 13, 2000
.Dt IM_LINUX 8
.Os Core-SDI
.Sh NAME
.Nm linux input module
.Nd
.Xr syslogd 8
input module used to log linux kernel messages
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm linux 
.Op Fl c Ar loglevel
.Op Fl C Ar loglevel
.Op Fl k Ar ksym_path
.Op Fl r
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl x
.Op Fl h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm linux input module 
allows
.Xr syslogd 8
daemon to log linux kernel messges. The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c Ar loglevel
Sets the default console log level.
.It Fl C Ar loglevel
Sets the default console log level and exits; this is usefull
to change log level when the syslogd daemon is already loaded.
.It Fl k Ar ksym_path
Specify the kernel symbol table file pathname; the default is
.Pa /proc/ksyms.
.It Fl r
This option forces to read the symbol table file into memory; the
default is to read it in 'realtime'.
.It Fl s
This option forces to use the syscall method to read kernel
messages; the default is to read from
.Pa /proc/kmsg.
.It Fl x
This option forces not to translate kernel symbols.
.It Fl h
This options prints a little help on standard output and exits.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -bullet
.It
The following command installs
.Xr syslogd 8
daemon and logs linux kernel messages only:
.Pp
.Dl syslogd -i "linux -r"
.Pp
.It
The following command sets the default console log level to 5 and exits:
.Pp
.Dl syslogd -i "linux -C 5"
.El
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr syslog 2 ,
.Xr syslog.conf 5 ,
.Xr syslogd 8 
.Sh BUGS
.Bl -bullet
.It
If reading from 
.Pa /proc/kmsg
and
.Fl r
option is specified, symbols from modules installed after
.Xr syslogd 8 
being a daemon are not recognized.
.It
.Fl s
option is not supported yet.
.It
If you specify a kernel symbol table file other than
.Pa /proc/ksyms,
module symbols translation are not done.
.It
If you found bugs, please report them to syslog-bugs@core-sdi.com
.El
