.\"	$Netarx: im_file.8,v 1.1 2001/11/06 22:59:18 phreed Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2002
.\"	Netarx Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Netarx Inc. nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd Nov 06, 2001
.Dt IM_PIPE 8
.Os Netarx
.Sh NAME
.Nm PIPE input module
.Nd
.Xr syslogd 8
input module for character files such as character special files and pipes.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm file
.Op Fl f Ar file path
.Op Fl n Ar name
.Op Fl s Ar start
.Op Fl t Ar time format
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Reads the log messages from a pipe written by another program
for processing by the
.Xr syslogd 8
daemon.
This module could just as well been named im_serial or im_getty or
im_keyboard or by any number of other names.
It can be used to read from any pollable character file as a syslog source.
In particular it can be used to messages received over a RS232 serial connection.
There are a number of legacy devices which post there logs to serial devices.
This module permits replacement of these serial consoles with an msyslog
enabled device.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
 It's options are:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ar file path
The name of the character file/device from which the messages are to be read.
.It Ar  name
The program or alias which will be used in the hostname position in the reformed message.
.It Ar  start
The start position from which to extract the timestamp
.It Ar  start
.Op Fl t Ar time format
The pattern that will be used to extract the timestamp (see strftime).
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -bullet
.It
The following command installs
.Xr syslogd 8
daemon reading from file /some/path:
.Pp
.Dl syslogd -i 'file -f /some/path'
.El
.Bl -bullet
.It
Same as above, but sets the name to 'myapp':
.Pp
.Dl syslogd -i 'file -n myapp -f /some/path'
.El
.Bl -bullet
.It
Same as above, but on /some/named/pipe pipe instead of the file:
.Pp
.Dl syslogd -i 'file -n myapp -f /some/named/pipe'
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr syslog 3 ,
.Xr im_bsd 8 ,
.Xr im_doors 8 ,
.Xr im_linux 8 ,
.Xr im_streams 8 ,
.Xr im_tcp 8 ,
.Xr im_udp 8 ,
.Xr syslogd 8
.Sh BUGS
.Bl -bullet
.It
Submit bugs at this project's Sourceforge Bug reporting system at:
http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=add&group_id=25741&atid=385117
The more you describe the bug, the faster we can fix it.
.El
