.\"	$CoreSDI: im_tcp.8,v 1.1 2001/03/01 00:46:01 alejo Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001
.\"	Core-SDI SA. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Core-SDI SA nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd Feb 28, 2001
.Dt IM_TCP 8
.Os Core-SDI
.Sh NAME
.Nm tcp input module
.Nd
.Xr syslogd 8
input module used to receive from tcp connections
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm tcp
.Op Fl h Ar host
.Op Fl p Ar port
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm tcp input module 
allows
.Xr syslogd 8
daemon to use tcp IPC.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -bullet
.It
The following command installs
.Xr syslogd 8
daemon and activates tcp system accepting remote connections on local
addres machinename.somedomainexample.com port 3210:
.Pp
.Dl syslogd -i 'tcp -h machinename.somedomainexample.com -p 3210
.El
.Pp
.Sh BUGS
.Bl -bullet
.It
We are sending everything not encrypted! You may want to use a tunnel
such as SSL.
.It
If you have found bugs, please report them to syslog-bugs@core-sdi.com
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr syslog 2 ,
.Xr syslog.conf 5 ,
.Xr om_tcp 8 ,
.Xr syslogd 8 
