.\"	$CoreSDI: om_mysql.8,v 1.19 2001/10/18 21:19:12 alejo Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001
.\"	Core-SDI SA. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Core-SDI SA nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd Jun 13, 2000
.Dt OM_MYSQL 8
.Os Core-SDI
.Sh NAME
.Nm MySQL output module
.Nd
.Xr syslogd 8
output module used to log on MySQL servers
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm mysql
.Op Fl D
.Op Fl s Ar host<:port>
.Op Fl u Ar username
.Op Fl p Ar password
.Op Fl d Ar database
.Op Fl t Ar table
.Op Fl F
.Op Fl P
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm MySQL output module 
receives a message as an ascii string and logs it on a MySQL server. For
proper initialization, the following parameters should be set:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl s Ar hostname<:port>
Specify the MySQL server hostname and optionally the port.
.It Fl u Ar username
Specifies the username to use on the MySQL server. This user
must have enough permissions to insert on the specified database and table.
.It Fl p Ar password
The plaintext password for this MySQL user. Thus it is recommended NOT to
leave
.Xr syslog.conf 5
world readable if this module is used.
.It Fl d Ar database
The database name to use on the specified MySQL server.
.It Fl t Ar table
The table name to use on the specified MySQL database.
.It Fl D
Do DELAYED inserts. See your MySQL documentation.
.It Fl F
Insert the facility level on the table on a field named "facility"
.It Fl P
Insert the priority level on the table on a field named "priority"
.Sh EXAMPLES
The table should have a format like this:
.Pp
.Bd -literal
  CREATE TABLE syslogTB (
    facility tinyint default 0,    # OPTIONAL field for facility
    priority tinyint default 0,    # OPTIONAL field for priority
    date date,           # date of this log message
    time time,           # time of this message
    host varchar(128),   # host logging
    message  text,        # message
    seq  int unsigned auto_increment primary key # optional sequence number
  ); 
.Ed
.Pp
The field names should be respected. The type of fields
.Va host
and
.Va msg
can be any text format smaller than 128 and 1024 chars respectively.
.Pp
The field seq may be needed for some
.Xr audit 1
features.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr syslog 3 ,
.Xr syslog.conf.5 ,
.Xr om_classic.8 ,
.Xr om_peo.8 ,
.Xr om_pgsql.8 ,
.Xr om_regex.8 ,
.Xr om_tcp.8 ,
.Xr om_udp.8 ,
.Xr peochk.8 ,
.Xr syslogd.8
.Sh BUGS
.Bl -bullet
.It
Since the MySQL module is used to connect with username and password,
care must be pointed on file permissions and that user permissions
on the MySQL server.
.It
Submit bugs at this project's Sourceforge Bug reporting system at:
http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=add&group_id=25741&atid=385117
You may also report them directly to the authors; send an email to
core.devel.alat@corest.com, describing the problem the most you can,
containing also machine description, hardware description, the
configuration file (/etc/syslog.conf), the OS description, and the
invoking command line.
The more you describe the bug, the faster we can fix it.
.El
