.\"	$CoreSDI: om_regex.8,v 1.13 2001/11/06 23:08:53 alejo Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001
.\"	Core-SDI SA. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Core-SDI SA nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd Aug 20, 2000
.Dt OM_REGEXP 8
.Os Core-SDI
.Sh NAME
.Nm msyslog regex output module
.Nd
.Xr syslogd 8
output module used to filter and redirect logs
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm regex
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl mhdt Ar exp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm regex output module 
receives a message and checks whether the regular expression
.Ar exp
matches given field of a log. You must select ONE of the following parameters:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl v
reverse result
.It Fl m Ar exp
match exp in message
.It Fl h Ar exp
match exp in host
.It Fl d Ar exp
match exp in date
.It Fl t Ar exp
match exp in time
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
# PASS ONLY logs with host from 8pm to 9am  (20:00:00 to 09:00:00)
# and also matching 'root' on logins
auth.info %regex -v -t '^1' %regex -m 'root' %classic /var/log/webserver
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr syslog 3 ,
.Xr syslog.conf 5 ,
.Xr om_classic 8 ,
.Xr om_mysql 8 ,
.Xr om_peo 8 ,
.Xr om_pgsql 8 ,
.Xr om_tcp 8 ,
.Xr om_udp 8 ,
.Xr peochk 8 ,
.Xr syslogd 8
.Sh BUGS
.Bl -bullet
.It
Still can't escape quotes within expression.
.It
Submit bugs at this project's Sourceforge Bug reporting system at:
http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=add&group_id=25741&atid=385117
You may also report them directly to the authors; send an email to
core.devel.alat@corest.com, describing the problem the most you can,
containing also machine description, hardware description, the
configuration file (/etc/syslog.conf), the OS description, and the
invoking command line.
The more you describe the bug, the faster we can fix it.
.El
