.\"	$Netarx: om_refract.8,v 1.6 2002/08/18 21:19:12 phreed Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2002
.\"	Netarx Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Netarx nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd Aug 18, 2002
.Dt OM_REFRACT 8
.Os Netarx
.Sh NAME
.Nm msyslog refract
output module
.Nd
.Xr syslogd 8
output module used to prevent repeated sending of messages within a period of time.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm refract
.Op Fl p Ar seconds
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm refract
output module used to prevent repeated sending of messages within the specified period of time.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
# Prevent the repeated issuance of messages within one day of the previous message.
*.*  %regex -m 'crontab.*REPLACE.*root.*'  %refract -p 86400 %classic /var/log/junk
.Ed
.Sh BUGS
.Bl -bullet
.It
None ;-)
.It
Submit bugs at this project's Sourceforge Bug reporting system at:    
http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=add&group_id=25741&atid=385117
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr im_refract.8 ,
.Xr syslog 3 ,
.Xr syslog.conf.5 ,
.Xr om_classic.8 ,
.Xr om_mysql.8 ,
.Xr om_peo.8 ,
.Xr om_pgsql.8 ,
.Xr om_regex.8 ,
.Xr om_udp.8 ,
.Xr peochk.8 ,
.Xr syslogd.8
